Reflection:


My topic for the individual assignment was Oxidised Nitrogen (NOx) of which can be defined as: the mixture of Nitric Oxide (NO) and Nitrogen Dioxide NO₂. This is a vital environmental parameter to track and model as the long term effects on both people and the environment damages the human respiratory track, and creates both smog, acid rain and nutrient pollution - a key cause behind algae blooms and a serious threat for western port, Victoria. This is primarily caused by run-off from local agriculture, drains and groundwater which as we develop as a nation become more prevalent. However, initially my individual project wasn’t looking at NOx, instead it was looking at ocean alkalinity as this topic was a particular passion of mine, ever since completing a major project on it in my first year. It was here that I hit the largest challenge of my entire project, one that I thought would be rather easy, finding a dataset. Thankfully I designed my code such that for each new dataset I tried out I would only have to change a few lines at the start. My first dataset was too large, despite very good data taken daily over numerous years, and when I tried to run the notebook I ran out of the 12GB of RAM, forcing me to try and find a new smaller dataset for ph which led to the dataset that you see in my github. However here the ph data was spotty, missing data from 2010-2015, and rather than try to find a new dataset and change my code again I instead looked at other parameters which held nautical changes within the dataset, which led me to NOx. But this was but one of my challenges, my dataset held many limitations that had to be cleaned. There were negative number of NOx which was physically impossible to get and thus I had to limit my graph to 0, and exclude all datapoints below y = 0, this issue led to wide HDI’s and predictions below 0. Another issue arose where I experienced troubles via the loading of my libraries, where installing bambi meant that when I used arviz to model my priors they wouldn’t load, which in the end was fixed by using AI which told me to use ‘return_inferencedata = True fix’ in my code to solve the issue.  Additionally when it came to the analysis of my dataset, in consideration to my research question for examining the temporal and spatial aspects of NOx in the region, we ran into the issue where you can't generalise the results I found across the entire port, as we only had 3 sites to work from which is poor for extrapolation as the that conditions of NOx. However I found that in using multiple models, although each with their own issue overall gave a good generalisation as to the conditions of NOx at Western Port, providing a visualisation as to the spatial distribution and changes over time.